The solution we provide for Traffic management by having a special intelligence which the images of road feed from the cameras 
(webcam or IP camera) at traffic junctions for real time traffic density calculation using image processing. It also focuses on
 the algorithm for switching the traffic lights according to vehicle density on the road, thereby aiming at reducing the traffic 
congestion on roads which will help lower the number of accidents. In turn, it will provide safe transit for people and reduce 
fuel consumption and waiting time. It will also provide significant data which will help in future road planning and analysis. 
In further stages multiple traffic lights can be synchronized with each other with an aim of even less traffic congestion and free
 flow of traffic. The vehicles are detected by the system through images instead of using electronic sensors embedded in the pavement.
 A camera will be placed alongside the traffic light. It will capture images sequences. Image processing is a better technique to 
control the state change of the traffic light. It shows that it can decrease the traffic congestion and avoids the time being wasted by 
a green light on an empty road. It is also more reliable in estimating vehicle presence because it uses actual traffic images.


We propose a technique that can be used for traffic control using image processing.  According to the traffic densities on all roads,
 our model will allocate smartly the time period of green light for each road. We have chosen image processing for calculation of
 traffic density as cameras are very much cheaper than other devices such as sensors. The proposed model is constructed as follows:
 We have a Raspberry Pi that is connected to 4 sets of LED that represent the traffic lights. It is the process of monitoring the 
traffic density of each side and  change the signal according to the density in 2 direction.


Each camera should be faced in each direction to monitor the traffic density by having a number of boundaries of each vehicle 
on the road. When the traffic density of one direction is high, green signal will turn  in that direction and rest will be in red.
 Similarly, by analyzing the order of traffic density traffic signal should be changed in every direction. So that traffic 
signaling system becomes automatic using image processing through open CV and python.

COMPONENTS INCLUDED
Raspberry Pi
Camera-2 (for 2 directions)
LED for signals
SOFTWARE USED
Raspbian Jessie OS
Python
Open CV
Apache